0009 - Expose js core modules to the window object to provide an interface to every developers (#12)
PrestaShop/ADR: 0005-expose-js-modules-using-window-variable.md

Modules are unable to use translatable type without using hardlinks such as :

```
import TranslatableInput from '../../../../../admin-dev/themes/new-theme/js/components/translatable-input';
```

This path is making CI/CD harder, and also break on some development environment such as symlinks or containers.

## Decision

The idea would be to give them the possibility to initialize TranslatableInput using a global objet such as `window.prestashop.components.TranslatableInput.init()`.

This means that if they are already initiated, they need to avoid a new execution.

Currently, the `prestashop` object is not used in the BO, but as we wants to stick to the workflow used on FO, we would like to introduce it in the backoffice.

@JevgenijVisockij submited a way of initializing global objects :

```
const initComponents = () => {
  let translatableInput = null;
  window.prestashop = {
    components: {
      translatableInput: {
        init() {
          if (translatableInput === null) {
            translatableInput = new TranslatableInput();
          }
          return translatableInput;
        },
      },
    }
  }
}

> ```

Reviewer: This explains how it is done, maybe we should an example of how it is used:

```js
$(() => {
    window.prestashop.components.translatableInput.init();
});
```

Also we should wait for the PR to be over, because we discussed this morning about making the component accessible as well, separately from the init method in case you want to use it differently from the default behaviour (like use other selectors in the constructor).

The idea is that you could do an alternative init via:

```js
$(() => {
    new window.prestashop.components.translatableInput.component({localeItemSelector: '.my-selector'});
});
```

The PR is not final, so we can either discuss it in this ADR, validate it and update the PR. Or the opposite, I don't care ^^

based on a little POC, which was mainly a proof of concept : [20313](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/20313)

This means that we'll have to refacto a lot of javascripts in order to port every components into globals, or atleast begin by mosts used ones.

## Consequences

What become easier :

- As a module developer, you'll be able to use every global javascript features of the core (if they are exposed inside the window objet)
- As a module developer, you're no longer forced to use hard paths breaking your dev environment or CI/CD workflow

> - As a core developer, you're no longer forced to import every modules you need, if they are exposed in the window objet, you'll be able to use them directly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As a core developer, you're no longer forced to import every modules you need, if they are exposed in the window object, you'll be able to use them directly
```

> - We now provide a way to avoid multiple executions of the same feature, while before, every modules was using them as they wants without caring of others modules. It means that we'll maybe avoid some side effects on some features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We now provide a way to avoid multiple executions of the same feature, while before, every modules was using them as they want without caring of other modules. It means that we'll maybe avoid some side effects on some features.
```

- Modules will be able to override core components without breaking the shop update workflow

What could become harder :

> - It will require more knowledge about the project. Before, you needed to know that TranslatableInput exist, while you'll need to also now that they are global and don't require to be imported at all.

Reviewer: It's not that much harder, as long as we document it and refacto the core code which will provide some good examples

Author: Yes, but it's harder anyway, this is one more thing to know than before, but this is the only thing I found
